This exercise asked you to classify a number of marketing data science projects,
in terms of the data science approach,
descriptive, predictive or prescriptive,
and type of model such as supervised regression or classification,
unsupervised clustering or anomaly detection,
Natural Language Processing, recommender systems, or deep learning.
Project one was a marketing message optimization project.
The approach here does not include prediction or prescribing behavior,
so it is a descriptive learning task.
The type of model we typically use for this is an AB testing model.
Project two is a marketing segmentation task.
This project also has no predictive or prescriptive component.
It too is a descriptive learning task.
Marketing segmentation is typically carried out using clustering methods,
which is an example of an unsupervised model.
Project three had to do with understanding customer churn.
Here we want to predict whether a customer will leave the company's products or services,
so the approach is one of predictive learning.
We're predicting a binary outcome,
whether a customer is to churn or not.
This is a classification exercise,
which is an example of a supervised model.
Project four is a customer loyalty program.
At the heart of this project is predicting whether
a customer will execute on a particular offer.
As such, this is a predictive learning problem with the target of the prediction being
the binary classification of execute versus not execute the offer.
Tasks such as these require classification algorithms,
which again are examples of supervised models.
Project five was a data science project having to do with customer loyalty assessment.
Here we were predicting a rating that customers would
give to reflect their experience with the business.
As such, the data science approach is predictive learning.
Since we are predicting a numerical rating and not a category,
we will use a form of supervised regression model.
Finally, projects six was a data science project that assessed customer attitudes.
There was no prediction or prescribed behavior associated with this project.
It is an example of descriptive learning.
The project required understanding postings from social media and
natural language processing task that in
this case will require sentiment analysis methods.